#labels Featured
<wiki:toc/>

So, what exactly _is_ Snow? How does it work? And why do I need it?

==What Snow is==

Snow is a metalanguage used for 
[http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Metaprogramming Metaprogramming] 
[http://www.php.net/ PHP]. 

If you haven't read the whole wikipage, this is what it boils down to:
{{{
Metaprogramming is the writing of computer programs that write or manipulate 
other programs (or themselves) as their data, or that do part of the work at 
compile time that would otherwise be done at runtime. In many cases, this allows
programmers to get more done in the same amount of time as they would take to 
write all the code manually, or it gives programs greater flexibility to 
efficiently handle new situations without recompilation.

Source: Wikipedia
}}}

Basically what it boils down to is that we have created a new syntax for a 
metalanguage that compiles down to PHP.

The main objectives designing Snow are:
 * De-ugly-fy PHP's syntax
 * Create a syntax that allows for greater expressive power
 * Create a syntax that is more concise

How did we go about doing that? We looked at several languages we deem 
interesting. Most notably: [http://www.python.org/ Python], 
[http://www.ruby-lang.org/en/ Ruby], [http://www.scala-lang.org/ Scala] and 
[http://golang.org/ Go]. We took bits and pieces of each them and created a 
syntax that is miles away from PHP's while still being true to it's nature so 
as not to undermine the PHP paradigm. 

The best part of using Snow is that it still fits in the PHP paradigm, 
the complete PHP landscape is still applicable (think serverstack, 
documentation, community etc.), there is just one thin layer added which is the 
Snow compiler.

==Why we have created Snow==
There are several reasons why we have created Snow. The first and foremost being
that we think PHP's syntax is ugly and it makes our eyes bleed. Sure, the 
language itself is fine; it has a very gradual learning curve while still 
allowing for serious webdevelopment.
